Of course, there's nothing in there
right now, so nothing's gonna change.
But there are a couple of styles we know
that we want shared across index and
speakers pages, right?
So, again, we want our links to not be
blue and purple and not underlined.
These are shared styles.
So what we can do is copy and
paste over our styles from the index
file to the Speaker's file.
That's gonna cause duplication.
So anytime I update the index CSS file,
I now have to update speakers CSS.
And of course your bundle size is gonna
quickly blow as well because now you're
maintaining essentially
two copies of shared code.
So the second option here is to have one
base CSS file containing all of our code
that's used across these pages and
share it.
So that's we're gonna do.
Inside styles we're gonna
make a base file, base.CSS.
But we need a way to get this
CSS file into both of the other
page CSS files, right?
So we can import this file into both
of the HTML pages above the link for
our CSS file but
there's something a little bit easier.
Inside of our index CSS file,
we can use this app import.
And then linked to the base
CSS file like this.
So now everything in base is gonna
be imported into our index CSS file.
Do the same here when we're on speakers.
So in our base file, What happens if we
wanna change our website background
to wait and have our text be orange?
Like we do on our speakers page, right?
Well, it's kind of an easy fix.
We just swapped those values for
background color and color.
Okay, so that works in this instance.
But what if our designers come to us and
they say, hey, actually,
we want to have a dark theme.
Okay, well,
that becomes a little more nuanced, right?
We don't want to have 1000s of lines
of CSS with these hard coded values.
So this is where CSS
variables can come into play.
And this is gonna help us,
it's much like other programming
languages like JavaScript,
we can use variables to reference these
different values like color, font size.
So let's declare some of these and
use them.
So inside of our base file,
we want to select the root element or
defining all of these
variables here on the root.
So the first one we're gonna
define is color primary.
We're gonna set this to our hex value,
this orange here.
So the FF7 B54.
I'm gonna copy that over like that.
So we've defined our color primary with
our orange, and now I'm gonna say color.
I'm prefacing this with color so
I can look at it and be like,
this is a color variable.
You can name them however you want.
I'm gonna call this text on primary.
And this is gonna be our white.
Okay, so we've got two.
Now you'll notice I didn't call
these variables orange or white.
I could, I can absolutely call them that.
What happens when our primary color for
a dark theme, for example,
is changed to a navy blue.
Well, do I have go rename
all these variables?
That would be a little redundant.
So I'm choosing to use primary,
secondary, tertiary,
these are the vocabulary
terms that am gonna be using.
So the primary color of
our website is orange.
And then if I need to update the color
palette, it's much easier to do that.
We just change this value and
it's gonna propagate.
Okay, so we've got our two variables here.
Color, primary color, text on primary.
Let's go back to our index file here and
replace these hardcoded hex values.
So to use it,
I need to use the VAR function here, and
I'm gonna say I want our background
color to be the primary color like that.
Same thing for color it's gonna be var,
color text on primary like that.
So if I go back to my homepage,
it's rendering properly.
So I'll also do this for
the font families just in case like we had
an identity crisis and wanted to change
our entire personality of our website.
So I will go back into base.
I'm going to create one more
variable called font family.
I'll call this inter silencer.
Same process,
a copy this variable name, and
then we'll go back to index.css,
so many pop-ups.
I'm going to replace this here,
var font-family, so that works.
I'm going to get rid of this bold,
that was just for show, but
I'm also going to move the body and
link styles into that base file.
Because these are gonna be shared so
just like that.
So you shouldn't have any code other
than the import now in your index and
speakers file,
everything should be in base.